# BarcodeCounter
Scripts to count number of reads from each barcode in barcode sequencing data. Initially published with Venkataram and Dunn et al. (2016).

DEPRECATED - all of the functionality for this package (and more) has been included in version 2 of this software. Please find BarcodeCounter2 at https://github.com/sandeepvenkataram/BarcodeCounter2.




The first script that needs to be used is countBarcodesByMapping.pl. 
Please change lines 18-20, 52-55 and 120 to conform to your specific computing environment.

This script uses bowtie2 to map raw fastq reads to the expected barcode sequence to demultiplex samples, remove pcr duplicates and extract the lineage barcode tags. The script calls findUniquesFromBarcodes.pl on each demultiplexed sample to count the number of times each unique lineage barcode sequence is observed.

processUniquesFileToBarcodeCounts.pl should then be used to map all of the uniques files generated by the previous script to a database of expected lineage barcodes identified from the original lineage tracking experiment. This script removes known duplicate barcodes in the database as well. The end result is a table with the number of unique reads mapping to each barcode in every processed sample.

condenseCounts.pl is then used to identify previously unidentified duplicate barcodes (multiple barcodes in the database which have nearly identical sequences) to amend the list of known duplicate barcodes until no duplicate barcodes are identified by the pipeline.
